---
layout: page
permalink: /people/murillo/
---

# Professor Juan Manuel Murillo

Professor Murillo is currently a Full Professor in the field of Software Engineering at the University of Extremadura (Spain). He develops his research activity within the Quercus Software Engineering Group which he contributed to create in 1995. Currently, he leads the SPILab (Social and Pervasive Innovation Lab) which is focused on the development of service technology for mobile devices.

Professor Murillo and his lab are members of the Spanish network of Science and Engineering Services. Since 2012, the SPILab team has specialized in building distributed, service-oriented architectures for mobile devices. Their main contributions have been the Internet of People (IoP) concept and the People as a Service (PeaaS) architecture. Both promote considering mobile devices as an infrastructure integrated in the cloud in which services can be deployed. These concepts were some of the precursors of the need for what we know today as Fog and Mist Computing. In all this research, the application areas were that of health and aging. Finally, from 2018, the practical problems faced in the field of health have led him to open a new research direction related to the development of software for quantum systems and its integration with classical service-oriented ones. In this field, the SPILab is currently collaborating in the development of the QHealth project, which deals with the modeling of systems in the field of pharmacogenomics for the development of precision medicine. As part of the work in this field, QSERV, a proposal developed jointly with the University of Castilla-La Mancha and Prof. Mario Piattini for the development of service technology that supports the construction of hybrid classical/quantum systems has been granted by the Spanish Ministry of Science and Innovation.

Most recently, Prof Murillo was appointed General Manager of the Foundation of Computing and Advanced Technologies of Extremadura (COMPUTAEX). COMPUTAEX was created in 2009 by the regional government of Extremadura to promote the development of information technology, the use of intensive computation and advanced communications. The foundation manages CenitS, the Center for Research, Technological Innovation and Supercomputing. CenitS manages three supercomputers (LUSITANIA, LUSITANIA II y LUSITANIA III) which are a Singular Scientific and Technological Infrastructure (ICTS) recognized by the Spanish Ministry of Science and Innovation. COMPUTAEX is a member of the Spanish Supercomputing Network. Prof. Murillo will contribute to the specialization of CenitS in the fields of Health and Energy as well as the development of quantum software technologies to enable quantum computing such as future HPC. The Foundation is currently one of the partners of the Quantum Spain project who aims to build the first quantum computing in Spain and provide with quantum simulation capabilities to a network of supercomputers.
